Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (Children) : Even though hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may be present early in life and is most likely congenital, it is not commonly seen in pediatric cardiology, largely because the presentation of symptoms is usually absent, incomplete, or delayed into adulthood. Most of the information pertaining to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy arises from studies in adult populations, and the implication of these observations for the pediatric population is uncertain. Nonetheless, studies in pediatric cardiology have revealed that hypertrophic cardiomyopathy accounts for 42% of childhood cardiomyopathies, with an annual incidence rate of 0.47/100,000 in children. In asymptomatic cases, sudden death is considered one of the most-feared complications associated with the disease. Consequently, the recommended practice is to screen children of affected individuals throughout childhood to detect cardiac abnormalities at an early stage, in the hope of preventing further complications of the disease. Generally, the diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in a pediatric population is made during assessment for murmur, congestive heart failure, physical exhaustion, and genetic testing of children of affected individuals. Echocardiography is used to assess left ventricular wall thickness, ventricular size, systolic and diastolic heart function, and outflow tract obstruction to diagnose hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in children. For children with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, treatment strategies aim to reduce disease symptoms and lower the risk of sudden death. Due to the heterogeneity of the disease, treatment is usually modified according to individual's needs. β-blockers improve left ventricular filling and relaxation and thereby lessen symptoms. In some children, β–blockers were shown effective in reducing the risk of sudden death. Calcium channel blockers (verapamil) and antiarrhythmic drugs may be used as an adjunct therapy to β-blockers in symptomatic children. Septal myectomy, if required for treatment, is considered safe in children.