Aortic stenosis : Aortic stenosis (AS or AoS) is the narrowing of the outlet of the main pumping chamber of the heart, the left ventricle (LV) (where the aorta begins). If the narrowing is severe (very tight) the extra work required from the left ventricle to pump the blood against the increased resistance of a small orifice may cause (initially adaptive) thickening of the heart muscle, followed by severe weakness of the heart (heart failure). The most common form of AS involves the aortic valve, which separates the LV from the aorta. Much more rarely stenosis can occur below the aortic valve or above it. Aortic stenosis typically gets worse over time. Typical symptoms are shortness of breath on exertion, chest pain (angina) and dizziness or blackouts on exertion (syncope). They often come on gradually, with a decreased ability to exercise often occurring first. If heart failure, loss of consciousness, or heart related chest pain occur due to AS, the outcomes are worse, with mortality of 50% at 2-5 years in the absence of valve replacement. Loss of consciousness typically occurs with standing or exercising. Signs of heart failure include shortness of breath especially when lying down, at night, or with exercise, and swelling of the legs. Thickening of the aortic valve without obstruction to flow is known as aortic sclerosis. Causes include being born with a bicuspid aortic valve, and rheumatic fever; a normal valve may also harden over the decades due to calcification. A bicuspid aortic valve affects about one to two percent of the population. As of 2014 rheumatic heart disease mostly occurs in the developing world. Risk factors are similar to those of coronary artery disease and include smoking, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes, and being male. The aortic valve usually has three leaflets and is located between the left ventricle of the heart and the aorta. AS typically results in a heart murmur. Its severity can be divided into mild, moderate, severe, and very severe, distinguishable by ultrasound scan of the heart. Aortic stenosis is typically followed up with repeated ultrasound scans. Once it has become severe, treatment primarily involves valve replacement surgery, with transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) being an option in some who are at high risk from surgery. Valves may either be mechanical or bioprosthetic, with each having risks and benefits. Another less invasive procedure, balloon aortic valvuloplasty (BAV), may result in benefit, but for only a few months. Complications such as heart failure may be treated in the same way as in those with mild to moderate AS. In those with severe disease several medications should be avoided, including ACE inhibitors, nitroglycerin, and some beta blockers. Nitroprusside or phenylephrine may be used in those with decompensated heart failure depending on the blood pressure. Aortic stenosis is the most common valvular heart disease in the developed world. It affects about 2% of people who are over 65 years of age. Estimated rates were not known in most of the developing world as of 2014. In those who have symptoms, without repair the chance of death at five years is about 50% and at 10 years is about 90%. Aortic stenosis was first described by French physician Lazare Rivière in 1663.