Peripheral artery disease (Diagnosis) : Diagnosing or identifying peripheral artery disease requires a history of symptoms and a physical exam, followed by confirmatory testing. These tests could include CT scans (Computed Tomographic Angiography), MRA scans (Magnetic Resonance Angiography), or ultrasounds for imaging. A physician will examine an individual for specific exam findings if symptoms are consistent with peripheral artery disease. Abnormal physical exam findings can lead a healthcare provider to consider the diagnosis. However, to confirm a diagnosis, confirmatory testing is required. These findings are associated with peripheral artery disease: Decreased or absent pulses Muscle atrophy or wasting Noticeable blueness of the affected limb Decreased temperature (coolness) in the affected limb when compared to the other limb Thickened nails Smooth or shiny skin and hair loss Buerger's test can check for pallor when the affected limb is in an elevated position. The limb is then moved from an elevated to a sitting position and checked for redness, which is called reactive hyperemia. Buerger's test is an assessment of arterial sufficiency, which is the ability of the artery to supply oxygenated blood to the tissue that it serves. Nonhealing lower extremity wound If peripheral artery disease is suspected, the initial study is the ankle–brachial index (ABI). The ABI is a simple, non-invasive test that measures the ratio of systolic blood pressure in the ankle to the systolic blood pressure in the upper arm. This is based on the idea that if blood pressure readings in the ankle are lower than those in the arm, a blockage in the arteries that provide blood from the heart to the ankle is suspected. An ABI range of 0.90 to 1.40 is considered normal. A person is considered to have PAD when the ABI is ≤ 0.90. However, PAD can be further graded as mild to moderate if the ABI is between 0.41 and 0.90, and severe if the ABI is less than 0.40. These categories can provide insight into the disease course. Furthermore, ABI values of 0.91 to 0.99 are considered borderline, and values >1.40 indicate noncompressible arteries. If an ABI >1.40 is calculated, this could indicate vessel wall stiffness caused by calcification, which can occur in people with uncontrolled diabetes. Abnormally high ABIs (>1.40) are usually considered false negatives, and thus, such results merit further investigation and higher-level studies. Individuals with noncompressible arteries have an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality within two years. Individuals with suspected PAD with normal ABIs can undergo exercise testing for ABI. A baseline ABI is obtained before exercise. The patient is then asked to exercise (usually patients are made to walk on a treadmill at a constant speed) until claudication pain occurs (for a maximum of 5 minutes), after which the ankle pressure is again measured. A decrease in ABI of 15%–20% would be diagnostic of PAD. If ABIs are abnormal, the next step is generally a lower limb Doppler ultrasound to look at the site of obstruction and the extent of atherosclerosis. Other imaging can be performed by angiography, where a catheter is inserted into the common femoral artery and selectively guided to the artery in question. While injecting a radio-dense contrast agent, an X-ray is taken. Any blood flow-limiting blockage found in the X-ray can be identified and treated by procedures including atherectomy, angioplasty, or stenting. Contrast angiography is the most readily available and widely used imaging technique. Modern computerized tomography (CT) scanners provide direct imaging of the arterial system. Studies have shown the sensitivity and specificity of CT in identifying lesions with >50% stenosis to be 95% and 96%, respectively. As such, CT may be considered as an alternative to invasive angiography. An important distinction between the two is that, unlike invasive angiography, assessment of the arterial system with CT does not allow for vascular intervention. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is a noninvasive diagnostic procedure that uses a combination of a large magnet, radio frequencies, and a computer to produce detailed images of blood vessels inside the body. The advantages of MRA include its safety and ability to provide high-resolution, three-dimensional imaging of the entire abdomen, pelvis, and lower extremities in one sitting.