Percutaneous coronary intervention (Recovery and rehabilitation) : For many patients the stenting procedures does not require an in-hospital stay. Much of the time spent in immediate recovery post stenting is to ensure the access site is not bleeding. The patient is generally monitored using ECG etc. Medications to prevent a blood clots from forming generally and in the stent are given directly after the stenting procedure, commonly in the form of an immediate loading dose of the potent anticoagulant (blood thinner) Plavix administered as a tablet. Other anticoagulant medicines are also used and the combination of aspirin and Plavix is a typical anticoagulant practice. For patients who have had a heart attack, the length of hospitalization is largely dependent on the muscle damage caused by the event. If a stent has been placed as part of the PCI procedure, the patient will be given a 'medical device card' (US) with information about the implanted stent such as a medical device serial number, this is important as it informs clinicians performing future potential medical procedures, this is also the case with arterial closure systems which are also medical devices. There is usually significant soreness at the point of entry into the arterial system, and fairly large hematomas (significant bruising) are very common, this soreness usually improves after a week or so. Patients are generally advised to 'take it easy' for a week or two and are instructed to be cautious not to lift any substantial weight, this is primarily to ensure the access site heals. Follow up appointments within a week or two of the procedure with a cardiologist or primary care provider/GP are a standard global practice. It is a standard practice to have further follow-up examinations every three to six months for the first year, though these practices do vary by region and practitioners. Further diagnostic coronary angiography is not routinely indicated after coronary stent implantation. If progression of heart disease is suspected, a stress test will be performed; patients who develop symptoms or show evidence of ischemia in a stress test may undergo diagnostic cardiac re-catheterization. Physical examinations play an important role after PCI-stenting procedures. Those patients at high risk of suffering from complications and those with more complexed coronary issues, angiography may be indicated regardless of the findings of non-invasive stress tests. Cardiac rehabilitation activities are dependent on many factors, but largely are connected to the degree of heart muscle damage prior to the PCI/DES procedure. Many patients who undergo this procedure have not had a heart attack, and may have no notable damage to their hearts. Others may have had a serious heart attack and the amount of damage to their heart's ability to supply the body with oxygenated blood might be impaired. Rehabilitation activities are prescribed to fit each individuals needs.