Deep vein thrombosis (Pathophysiology) : Blood has a natural tendency to clot when blood vessels are damaged (hemostasis) to minimize blood loss. Clotting is activated by the coagulation cascade, and the clearing of clots that are no longer needed is accomplished by the process of fibrinolysis. Reductions in fibrinolysis or increases in coagulation can increase the risk of DVT. DVT often develops in the calf veins and "grows" in the direction of venous flow, towards the heart. DVT most frequently affects veins in the leg or pelvis including the popliteal vein (behind the knee), femoral vein (of the thigh), and iliac veins of the pelvis. Extensive lower-extremity DVT can even reach into the inferior vena cava (in the abdomen). Upper extremity DVT most commonly affects the subclavian, axillary, and jugular veins. The process of fibrinolysis, where DVT clots can be dissolved back into the blood, tempers thrombus growth. This is the preferred process. Aside from the potentially deadly embolization process, a clot can resolve through organization, which can damage venous valves, cause venous fibrosis, and result in non-compliant veins. Organization of a thrombus into the vein can occur at the third stage of its pathological development, in which collagen becomes the characteristic component. The first pathological stage is marked by red blood cells, and the second is characterized by medium-textured fibrin. In arterial thrombosis, blood vessel wall damage is required, as it initiates coagulation, but clotting in the veins mostly occurs without any such mechanical damage. The beginning of venous thrombosis is thought to arise from "activation of endothelial cells, platelets, and leukocytes, with initiation of inflammation and formation of microparticles that trigger the coagulation system" via tissue factor. Vein wall inflammation is likely the inciting event. Importantly, the activated endothelium of veins interacts with circulating white blood cells (leukocytes). While leukocytes normally help prevent blood from clotting (as does normal endothelium), upon stimulation, leukocytes facilitate clotting. Neutrophils are recruited early in the process of venous thrombi formation. They release pro-coagulant granules and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) or their components, which play a role in venous thrombi formation. NET components are pro-thrombotic through both the intrinsic and extrinsic coagulation pathways. NETs provide "a scaffold for adhesion" of platelets, red blood cells, and multiple factors that potentiate platelet activation. In addition to the pro-coagulant activities of neutrophils, multiple stimuli cause monocytes to release tissue factor. Monocytes are also recruited early in the process. Tissue factor, via the tissue factor–factor VIIa complex, activates the extrinsic pathway of coagulation and leads to conversion of prothrombin to thrombin, followed by fibrin deposition. Fresh venous clots are red blood cell and fibrin rich. Platelets and white blood cells are also components. Platelets are not as prominent in venous clots as they are in arterial ones, but they can play a role. In cancer, tissue factor is produced by cancer cells. Cancer also produces unique substances that stimulate factor Xa, cytokines that promote endothelial dysfunction, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, which inhibits the breakdown of clots (fibrinolysis). Often, DVT begins in the venous valves. The blood flow pattern in the valves can cause low oxygen concentrations in the blood (hypoxemia) of a valve sinus. Hypoxemia, which is worsened by venous stasis, activates pathways—ones that include hypoxia-inducible factor-1 and early-growth-response protein 1. Hypoxemia also results in the production of reactive oxygen species, which can activate these pathways, as well as nuclear factor-κB, which regulates hypoxia-inducible factor-1 transcription. Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 and early-growth-response protein 1 contribute to monocyte association with endothelial proteins, such as P-selectin, prompting monocytes to release tissue factor-filled microvesicles, which presumably begin clotting after binding to the endothelial surface. D-dimers are a fibrin degradation product, a natural byproduct of fibrinolysis that is typically found in the blood. An elevated level can result from plasmin dissolving a clot—or other conditions. Hospitalized patients often have elevated levels for multiple reasons. Anticoagulation, the standard treatment for DVT, prevents further clot growth and PE, but does not act directly on existing clots.