Atrial fibrillation (Causes) : AF is linked to several forms of cardiovascular disease, but may occur in otherwise normal hearts. Cardiovascular factors known to be associated with the development of AF include high blood pressure, coronary artery disease, mitral valve stenosis (e.g., due to rheumatic heart disease or mitral valve prolapse), mitral regurgitation, left atrial enlargement, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, pericarditis, congenital heart disease, and previous heart surgery. People with congenital heart disease tend to develop atrial fibrillation at a younger age, that is more likely to be of right atrial origin (atypical) than of left origin, and have a greater risk of progressing to permanent atrial fibrillation. Additionally, lung diseases (such as pneumonia, lung cancer, pulmonary embolism, and sarcoidosis) may play a role in certain people. Sepsis also increases the risk of developing new-onset atrial fibrillation. Disorders of breathing during sleep, such as obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), are also associated with AF. OSA, specifically, was found to be a very strong predictor of atrial fibrillation. Patients with OSA were shown to have an increased incidence of atrial fibrillation and a study done by Gami et al. demonstrated that increased nocturnal oxygen desaturation from OSA severity was correlated with higher incidences of atrial fibrillation. Obesity is a risk factor for AF. Hyperthyroidism and subclinical hyperthyroidism are associated with AF development. Caffeine consumption does not appear to be associated with AF; excessive alcohol consumption ("binge drinking" or "holiday heart syndrome") is linked to AF. Low-to-moderate alcohol consumption also appears to be associated with an increased risk of developing atrial fibrillation, although the increase in risk associated with drinking less than two drinks daily appears to be small. Tobacco smoking and secondhand tobacco smoke exposure are associated with an increased risk of developing atrial fibrillation. Long-term endurance exercise that far exceeds the recommended amount of exercise (e.g., long-distance cycling or marathon running) appears to be associated with a modest increase in the risk of atrial fibrillation in middle-aged and elderly people. Major stress biomarkers (including cortisol and heat shock proteins) indicate that stress plays a significant role in causing atrial fibrillation. There is some evidence that night shift working may be linked to a diagnosis of AF. Atrial fibrillation is associated with elevated levels of inflammatory markers and clotting factors. Mendelian randomization indicates a causal relationship of inflammation leading to atrial fibrillation.