Electrocardiography (Electrocardiograph machines) : Mechanical cardiographs (apex cardiogram), developed in the 19th century, recorded heart movements by transmitting heart or chest wall motions to a spring and air chamber system. A writing lever traced these movements onto a smoked rotating cylinder, producing a cardiogram. Their accuracy was limited, as they captured all body movements, introducing errors. Modern day electrocardiograms are recorded by machines that consist of a set of electrodes connected to a central unit. In the late 19th century, scientists discovered the heart's electrical activity, leading to the electrocardiograph's development. Willem Einthoven's 1903 string galvanometer enabled precise measurement of these signals, revolutionizing cardiography. He received the 1924 Nobel Prize for this work. Early ECG machines were constructed with analog electronics, where the signal drove a motor to print out the signal onto paper. Today, electrocardiographs use analog-to-digital converters to convert the electrical activity of the heart to a digital signal. Many ECG machines are now portable and commonly include a screen, keyboard, and printer on a small wheeled cart. Recent advancements in electrocardiography include developing even smaller devices for inclusion in fitness trackers and smart watches. These smaller devices often rely on only two electrodes to deliver a single lead I. Portable twelve-lead devices powered by batteries are also available. Recording an ECG is a safe and painless procedure. The machines are powered by mains power but they are designed with several safety features including an earthed (ground) lead. Other features include: Defibrillation protection: any ECG used in healthcare may be attached to a person who requires defibrillation and the ECG needs to protect itself from this source of energy. Electrostatic discharge is similar to defibrillation discharge and requires voltage protection up to 18,000 volts. Additionally, circuitry called the right leg driver can be used to reduce common-mode interference (typically the 50 or 60 Hz mains power). ECG voltages measured across the body are very small. This low voltage necessitates a low noise circuit, instrumentation amplifiers, and electromagnetic shielding. Simultaneous lead recordings: earlier designs recorded each lead sequentially, but current models record multiple leads simultaneously. Most modern ECG machines include automated interpretation algorithms. This analysis calculates features such as the PR interval, QT interval, corrected QT (QTc) interval, PR axis, QRS axis, rhythm and more. The results from these automated algorithms are considered "preliminary" until verified and/or modified by expert interpretation. Despite recent advances, computer misinterpretation remains a significant problem and can result in clinical mismanagement.