Deep vein thrombosis (Social) : Being on blood thinners because of DVT can be life-changing because it can prevent lifestyle activities such as contact or winter sports, and prevent bleeding after potential injuries. Head injuries prompting brain bleeds are of particular concern. This has caused NASCAR driver Brian Vickers to forgo participation in races. Professional basketball players including NBA players Victor Wembanyama, Chris Bosh, and hall of famer Hakeem Olajuwon have dealt with recurrent blood clots, and Bosh's career was significantly hampered by DVT and PE. Tennis star Serena Williams was hospitalized in 2011 for PE thought to have originated from DVT. Years later, in 2017, due to her knowledge of DVT and PE, Serena accurately advocated for herself to have a PE diagnosed and treated. During this encounter with VTE, she was hospitalized after a C-section surgery and was off blood thinners. After feeling the sudden onset of a PE symptom, shortness of breath, she told her nurse and requested a CT scan and an IV heparin drip, all while gasping for air. She started to receive an ultrasound to look for DVT in the legs, prompting her to express dissatisfaction with the medical staff, who were not looking for clots where she had symptoms (her lungs), and they were not yet treating her presumed PE. After being diagnosed with PE and not DVT, and after receiving heparin IV, the coughing from the PE caused her C-section surgical site to open, and the heparin contributed to bleeding at the site. Serena later received an IVC filter while in the hospital. Other notable people have been affected by DVT. Former United States President Richard Nixon had recurrent DVT, and so has former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. She was first diagnosed while First Lady in 1998 and again in 2009. Dick Cheney was diagnosed with an episode while Vice President, and TV show host Regis Philbin had DVT after hip-replacement surgery. DVT has also contributed to the deaths of famous people. For example, DVT and PE played a role in rapper Heavy D's death at age 44. NBC journalist David Bloom died at age 39 while covering the Iraq War from a PE that was thought to have progressed from a missed DVT, and actor Jimmy Stewart had DVT that progressed to a PE when he was 89.