Coronary artery bypass surgery (Complications) : The most common complications of CABG are postoperative bleeding, heart failure, atrial fibrillation (a form of arrhythmia), stroke, kidney dysfunction, and infection of the wound near the sternum. Postoperative bleeding occurs in 2–5% of cases and may require returning to the operating room; the most common indicator is the amount of blood being drained by chest tubes, which are inserted during the operation to drain fluid or air from the chest. Bleeding may originate from the aorta, the anastomosis, an insufficiently sealed branch of the conduit, or from the sternum. Other causes include platelet abnormalities or their failure to clot—perhaps due to the bypass or to the rebound heparin effect, which occurs when the anti-coagulant heparin is administered at the beginning of surgery and reappears in the blood after its neutralization by protamine. Low cardiac output syndrome (LCOS) can occur in up to 14% of CABG patients. According to its severity, LCOS is treated with inotropes, an intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP), optimization of pre-load and afterload, or correction of blood gauzes and electrolytes. The aim is to maintain a systolic blood pressure above 90 mmHg and a cardiac index of more than 2.2 L/min/m2. LCOS is often transient. Myocardial infarction can occur after the operation because of either technical or patient-specific factors. Its incidence is difficult to estimate due to varying definitions, but most studies place its occurrence at between 2% and 5%. The incidence is also dependent on whether it is isolated CABG (average, 4%, range, 0.3%–10%) or a combined operation (average, 2.0%, range, 0.7%–12%). New electrocardiogram features, such as Q waves or ultrasound-documented alternation of cardiac wall motions, are indicative. Ongoing ischemia might prompt emergency angiography and PCI or re-operation. Immediate coronary angiography offers the most expeditious modality not only for diagnosis but also for potential reintervention. Echocardiography is less valuable for the detection or confirmation of postoperative myocardial ischemia. Arrhythmias can also occur, most-commonly atrial fibrillation (incidence of 20–40%) that is treated with correcting electrolyte balance, and rate and rhythm control. However, arrhythmia such as ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation can be a sign of postoperative myocardial ischemia that is treated depending on the cause. Adverse neurological effects occur after CABG in about 1.5% of patients. They can manifest as type-1 deficits—focal deficits such as stroke or coma—or type-2 global deficits such as delirium caused by CPB, hypoperfusion, or cerebral embolism. Cognitive impairment has been reported in up to 80% cases after CABG at discharge and lasts for a year in up to 40% of cases. The cause remains unclear; CPB is an unlikely cause because even in CABG patients without CPB, as in off-pump CABG, and PCI patients, the incidence is the same. Infections, such as wound infections in the sternum (superficial or deep) are most commonly caused by Staphylococcus aureus, and may complicate the post-operation process. The harvesting of both two thoracic arteries is a risk factor because it significantly impairs the perfusion of blood through the sternum. Pneumonia can also occur. Complications in the gastrointestinal tract have been described and are most commonly due to medications administered during the operation.