Peripheral artery disease : Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a vascular disorder that causes abnormal narrowing of arteries other than those that supply the heart or brain. PAD can happen in any blood vessel, but it is more common in the legs than the arms. When narrowing occurs in the heart, it is called coronary artery disease (CAD), and in the brain, it is called cerebrovascular disease. Peripheral artery disease most commonly affects the legs, but other arteries may also be involved, such as those of the arms, neck, or kidneys. Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a form of peripheral vascular disease. Vascular refers to the arteries and veins within the body. PAD differs from peripheral veinous disease. PAD means the arteries are narrowed or blocked—the vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood as it moves from the heart to other parts of the body. Peripheral veinous disease, on the other hand, refers to problems with veins—the vessels that bring the blood back to the heart. The classic symptom is leg pain when walking, which resolves with rest and is known as intermittent claudication. Other symptoms include skin ulcers, bluish skin, cold skin, or abnormal nail and hair growth in the affected leg. Complications may include an infection or tissue death, which may require amputation; coronary artery disease; or stroke. Up to 50% of people with PAD do not have symptoms. The greatest risk factor for PAD is cigarette smoking. Other risk factors include diabetes, high blood pressure, kidney problems, and high blood cholesterol. PAD is primarily caused by the buildup of fatty plaque in the arteries, which is called atherosclerosis, especially in individuals over 40 years old. Other mechanisms include artery spasm, blood clots, trauma, fibromuscular dysplasia, and vasculitis. PAD is typically diagnosed by finding an ankle-brachial index (ABI) less than 0.90, which is the systolic blood pressure at the ankle divided by the systolic blood pressure of the arm. Duplex ultrasonography and angiography may also be used. Angiography is more accurate and allows for treatment at the same time; however, it is associated with greater risks. It is unclear if screening for peripheral artery disease in people without symptoms is useful, as it has not been properly studied. For those with intermittent claudication from PAD, stopping smoking and supervised exercise therapy may improve outcomes. Medications, including statins, ACE inhibitors, and cilostazol, may also help. Aspirin, which helps with thinning the blood and thus improving blood flow, does not appear to help those with mild disease but is usually recommended for those with more significant disease due to the increased risk of heart attacks. Anticoagulants (blood thinners) such as warfarin show no definitive scientific evidence of benefit in PAD. Surgical procedures used to treat PAD include bypass grafting, angioplasty, and atherectomy. In 2015, about 155 million people had PAD worldwide. It becomes more common with age. In the developed world, it affects about 5.3% of 45- to 50-year-olds and 18.6% of 85- to 90-year-olds. In the developing world, it affects 4.6% of people between the ages of 45 and 50 and 15% of people between the ages of 85 and 90. PAD in the developed world is equally common among men and women, though in the developing world, women are more commonly affected. In 2015, PAD resulted in about 52,500 deaths, which is an increase from the 16,000 deaths in 1990.