Deep vein thrombosis (Diagnosis) : A clinical probability assessment using the Wells score (see column in the table below) to determine if a potential DVT is "likely" or "unlikely" is typically the first step of the diagnostic process. The score is used in suspected first lower extremity DVT (without any PE symptoms) in primary care and outpatient settings, including the emergency department. The numerical result (possible score −2 to 9) is most commonly grouped into either "unlikely" or "likely" categories. A Wells score of two or more means DVT is considered "likely" (about a 28% chance), while those with a lower score are considered "unlikely" to have DVT (about a 6% chance). In those unlikely to have DVT, a diagnosis is excluded by a negative D-dimer blood test. In people with likely DVT, ultrasound is the standard imaging used to confirm or exclude a diagnosis. Imaging is also needed for hospital inpatients with suspected DVT and those initially categorized as unlikely to have DVT but who have a positive D-dimer test. While the Wells score is the predominant and most studied clinical prediction rule for DVT, it does have drawbacks. The Wells score requires a subjective assessment regarding the likelihood of an alternate diagnosis and performs less well in the elderly and those with a prior DVT. The Dutch Primary Care Rule has also been validated for use. It contains only objective criteria but requires obtaining a D-dimer value. With this prediction rule, three points or less means a person is at low risk for DVT. A result of four or more points indicates an ultrasound is needed. Instead of using a prediction rule, experienced physicians can make a DVT pre-test probability assessment using clinical assessment and gestalt, but prediction rules are more reliable. Compression ultrasonography for suspected deep vein thrombosis is the standard diagnostic method, and it is highly sensitive for detecting an initial DVT. A compression ultrasound is considered positive when the vein walls of normally compressible veins do not collapse under gentle pressure. Clot visualization is sometimes possible, but is not required. Three compression ultrasound scanning techniques can be used, with two of the three methods requiring a second ultrasound some days later to rule out the diagnosis. Whole-leg ultrasound is the option that does not require a repeat ultrasound, but proximal compression ultrasound is frequently used because distal DVT is only rarely clinically significant. Ultrasound methods including duplex and color flow Doppler can be used to characterize the clot further and Doppler ultrasound is especially helpful in the non-compressible iliac veins. CT scan venography, MRI venography, or a non-contrast MRI are also diagnostic possibilities. The gold standard for judging imaging methods is contrast venography, which involves injecting a peripheral vein of the affected limb with a contrast agent and taking X-rays, to reveal whether the venous supply has been obstructed. Because of its cost, invasiveness, availability, and other limitations, this test is rarely performed.