Peripheral artery disease (Etiology and pathophysiology) : Peripheral arterial disease is considered to be a set of chronic or acute syndromes, generally derived from the presence of occlusive arterial disease, which causes inadequate blood flow to the limbs. As previously mentioned, the most common etiology of peripheral artery disease, especially in patients over 40 years old, is atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a narrowing of the arteries caused by lipid or fat buildup and calcium deposition in the wall of the affected arteries. The pathophysiology of atherosclerosis involves complex interactions between cholesterol and vascular cells. In the early stages of PAD, the arteries compensate for plaque buildup by dilating to preserve flow through the vessel. Eventually, the artery cannot dilate further, and the atherosclerotic plaque narrows the arterial flow lumen. When there is an imbalance between the needs of the peripheral tissues and the blood supply, the affected person is faced with ischemia. From the pathophysiologic point of view, a restriction of blood supply (ischemia) to the lower limbs can be classified as either functional or critical. Functional ischemia occurs when the blood flow is normal at rest but insufficient during exercise, presenting clinically as intermittent claudication. Critical ischemia is produced when the reduction in blood flow results in a perfusion deficit at rest and is defined by the presence of pain at rest or trophic lesions in the legs. In this situation, precise diagnosis is crucial, as there is a clear risk of limb loss if adequate blood flow is not re-established, either by surgery or endovascular therapy. Differentiating between functional and critical ischemia is important to establish the therapeutic indication and the prognosis in patients with PAD. Other causes include vasculitis and in situ thrombosis related to hypercoagulable states. Additional mechanisms of peripheral artery disease include arterial spasm and fibromuscular dysplasia. The cause and pathophysiology of arterial spasm are not fully understood, but it is hypothesized that they can occur secondary to trauma. The symptoms of claudication ensue when the artery spasms, or clamps down on itself, creating an obstruction. Like atherosclerosis, this leads to decreased blood flow to the tissue downstream of the obstruction. Thrombosis, or the formation of a blood clot, usually occurs due to stasis or trauma.