Ventricular tachycardia (Diagnosis) : The diagnosis of ventricular tachycardia is made based on the rhythm seen on either a 12-lead ECG or a telemetry rhythm strip. It may be very difficult to differentiate between ventricular tachycardia and wide-complex supraventricular tachycardia in some cases. In particular, supraventricular tachycardias with aberrant conduction from a pre-existing bundle branch block are commonly misdiagnosed as ventricular tachycardia. Other rarer phenomena include Ashman beats and antidromic atrioventricular re-entry tachycardias. Various diagnostic criteria, such as the Brugada criteria, have been developed to determine whether a wide complex tachycardia is ventricular tachycardia or a more benign rhythm. In addition to these diagnostic criteria, if the individual has a history of a myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, or recent angina, the wide complex tachycardia is much more likely to be ventricular tachycardia. However, no set of criteria provides complete diagnostic accuracy in the evaluation of wide complex tachycardia. The proper diagnosis is important, as the misdiagnosis of supraventricular tachycardia when ventricular tachycardia is present is associated with worse prognosis. This is particularly true if calcium channel blockers, such as verapamil, are used to attempt to terminate a presumed supraventricular tachycardia. Therefore, it is wisest to assume that all wide complex tachycardia is VT until proven otherwise. ECG features of ventricular tachycardia, in addition to the increased heart rate, are: A wide QRS complex (because the ectopics for the generation of the cardiac impulse originate in the ventricular myocyte and are propagated via the intermyocyte conduction, which is a delayed conduction) A Josephson's sign where there is the notch in the downsloping of the S wave near its nadir (considered very specific for the VT) Capture beats (normal QRS complex in between when the heart picks up the sinus rhythm from the impulses generated by the SA node), fusion beats (due to the fusion of the abnormal and the normal QRS complexes), which has a unique morphology Positive or negative concordance Extreme axis deviation or northwest axis (axis between -90 and +180 degrees)