Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (Genetics) : Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait which is attributed to mutations in one of several genes that encode for the sarcomere proteins, and most diagnosed individuals will have an affected parent. Occasionally, both copies of the gene will be defective, a condition that may lead to a more severe manifestation of the disease. Currently, about 40–60% of people with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy will have a mutation identified in at least one of nine sarcomeric genes. Approximately 40% of these mutations occur in the β-myosin heavy chain gene on chromosome 14 q11.2-3, and approximately 40% involve the cardiac myosin-binding protein C gene. Since hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is typically an autosomal dominant trait, children of a single hypertrophic cardiomyopathy parent have a 50% chance of inheriting the disease-causing mutation. Whenever such a mutation is identified, family-specific genetic testing can be used to identify relatives at risk for the disease, although clinical severity and age of onset cannot be predicted.An insertion/deletion polymorphism in the gene encoding for angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) alters the clinical phenotype of the disease. The D/D (deletion/deletion) genotype of ACE is associated with more marked hypertrophy of the left ventricle and may be associated with a higher risk of adverse outcomes. Over 1400 mutations have been identified in genes known to lead to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Some mutations could have more harmful potential compared to others (β-myosin heavy chain). For example, troponin T mutations were originally associated with a 50% mortality before the age of 40. However, a more recent and larger study found a similar risk to other sarcomeric protein mutations. The age at disease onset of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with MYH7 mutations is earlier and leads to more severe symptoms. Moreover, mutations on troponin C can alter Ca+2 sensibility on force development in cardiac muscle, these mutations are named after the amino acid that was changed after the location in which it happened, such as A8V, A31S, C84Y and D145E.