Pulmonary embolism (Risk factors) : About 90% of emboli are from a deep vein thrombosis located above the knee termed a proximal DVT, which includes an iliofemoral DVT. The rare venous thoracic outlet syndrome can also be a cause of DVTs, especially in young men without significant risk factors. DVTs are at risk for dislodging and migrating to the lung circulation. The conditions are generally regarded as a continuum known as a venous thromboembolism (VTE). VTE is much more common in immunocompromised individuals as well as individuals with comorbidities including: Those that undergo orthopedic surgery at or below the hip without prophylaxis. This is due to immobility during or after the surgery, as well as venous damage during the surgery. Pancreatic and colon cancer patients (other forms of cancer also can be factors, but these are the most common) This is due to the release of procoagulants. The risk of VTE is at its greatest during diagnosis and treatment but lowers in remission. Patients with high-grade tumors Pregnant women As the body puts itself into what is known as a "hypercoagulable state" the risk of a hemorrhage during childbirth is decreased and is regulated by increased expression of factors VII, VIII, X, Von Willebrand, and fibrinogen. Those on estrogen medication No linkage has been found to those taking progestin-only oral contraceptives. The development of thrombosis is classically due to a group of causes named Virchow's triad (alterations in blood flow, factors in the vessel wall, and factors affecting the properties of the blood). Often, more than one risk factor is present. Alterations in blood flow: immobilization (after surgery, long-haul flight), injury, pregnancy (also procoagulant), obesity (also procoagulant), cancer (also procoagulant) Factors in the vessel wall: surgery, catheterizations causing direct injury ("endothelial injury") Factors affecting the properties of the blood (procoagulant state): Estrogen-containing medication (transgender hormone therapy, menopausal hormone therapy and hormonal contraceptives) Genetic thrombophilia (factor V Leiden, prothrombin mutation G20210A, protein C deficiency, protein S deficiency, antithrombin deficiency, hyperhomocysteinemia and plasminogen/fibrinolysis disorders) Acquired thrombophilia (antiphospholipid syndrome, nephrotic syndrome, paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria) Cancer (due to secretion of pro-coagulants) Although most pulmonary embolisms are the result of proximal DVTs, there are still many other risk factors that can also result in a pulmonary embolism. Risk factors include: Varicose veins caused by vascular damage Pulmonary hypertension Diabetes Traumatic hip fractures that immobilize the patient Joint fixation (primarily in the legs)