Anticoagulant (Adverse effects) : The most serious and common adverse side effects associated with anticoagulants are increased risk of bleeding, both nonmajor and major bleeding events. The bleeding risk depends on the class of anticoagulant agent used, the patient's age, and pre-existing health conditions. Warfarin has an estimated incidence of bleeding of 15–20% per year and a life-threatening bleeding rate of 1–3% per year. Newer non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants appear to have fewer life-threatening bleeding events than warfarin. Additionally, patients aged 80 years or more may be especially susceptible to bleeding complications, with a rate of 13 bleeds per 100 person-years. Bleeding risk is especially important to consider in patients with renal impairment and NOAC therapy because all NOACs, to some extent, are excreted by the kidneys. Thus, patients with renal impairment may be at higher risk of increased bleeding. In people with cancer, a systematic review has found warfarin had no effect on death rate or the risk of blood clots. However, it did increase the risk of major bleeding in 107 more people per 1000 population and minor bleeding in 167 more people per 1000 population. Apixaban had no effect on mortality, recurrence of blood clots in blood vessels, or major or minor bleeding. However, this finding comes only from one study. Nonhemorrhagic adverse events are less common than hemorrhagic adverse events but should still be monitored closely. Nonhemorrhagic adverse events of warfarin include skin necrosis, limb gangrene, and purple toe syndrome. Skin necrosis and limb gangrene are most commonly observed on the third to eighth day of therapy. The exact pathogenesis of skin necrosis and limb gangrene is not completely understood but it is believed to be associated with warfarin's effect on inhibiting the production of protein C and protein S. Purple toe syndrome typically develops three to eight weeks after initiation of warfarin therapy. Other adverse effects of warfarin are associated with depletion of vitamin K, which can lead to inhibition of G1a proteins and growth arrest-specific gene 6, which can lead to increased risk of arterial calcification and heart valve, especially if too much Vitamin D is present. Warfarin's interference with G1a proteins has also been linked to abnormalities in fetal bone development in mothers who were treated with warfarin during pregnancy. Long-term warfarin and heparin usage have also been linked to osteoporosis. Another potentially severe complication associated with heparin use is called heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). There are two distinct types: HIT 1) immune-mediated and 2) non-immune-mediated. Immune-mediated HIT most commonly arises five to ten days after exposure to heparin. Pathogenesis of immune-mediated HIT is believed to be caused by heparin-dependent immunoglobulin antibodies binding to platelet factor 4/heparin complexes on platelets, leading to widespread platelet activation.