Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (Complications) : The orientation, uniformity and depth of the valve is important. When the valve is not inserted correctly, there can be incomplete sealing between the native heart valve and the stented valve, leading to paravalvular leak (PVL). Key properties associated with paravalvular leak are the regurgitation volume, the PVL orifice location (anterior or posterior) and the associated fluid dynamic effects that occur from the interactions between the regurgitated flow and the normal transmitral flow. Morisawa et al. carried out quantitative research to determine how the PVL flow effected normal transmitral flow based on three different in-vitro situations: no PVL, anterior orifice PVL and posterior orifice PVL. The results showed that while the two PVL cases worsened the fluid dynamics of the normal transmitral flow seen without leakage, the posterior orifice PVL was worse, leading to a higher circulation and kinetic energy, requiring the heart to work harder and consume more energy to maintain normal bodily functions. Additionally, the "Big 5 of TAVI complications" include paravalvular leakage (PVL), major bleeding or vascular complications, acute kidney injury (AKI), stroke, and conduction abnormalities, such as high-degree AV-block with need for permanent pacemaker implantation must be monitored to ensure successful procedural outcomes such as low mortality and morbidity. There is a ~3% risk of stroke associated with TAVI due to embolism or altered hemodynamics during or after the procedure. Approximately 70% of patients undergoing TAVI show signs of clinically silent brain infarcts on neuroimaging afterwards. Further, levels of the neuroaxonal damage biomarker neurofilament light chain are elevated in blood plasma after TAVI. Whereas clinical stroke is associated with reduced quality of life and cognitive impairment, the significance of silent brain infarcts and elevated levels of neurofilament light is presently unclear.