Hypertension (Prevention) : Much of the disease burden of high blood pressure is experienced by people who are not labeled as hypertensive. Consequently, population strategies are required to reduce the consequences of high blood pressure and reduce the need for antihypertensive medications. Lifestyle changes are recommended to lower blood pressure. Recommended lifestyle changes for the prevention of hypertension include: maintain normal body weight for adults (e.g. body mass index below 25 kg/m2) reduce dietary sodium intake to <100 mmol/day (<6 g of salt (sodium chloride) or <2.4 g of sodium per day) engage in regular aerobic physical activity with moderate intensity (minimum 150 minutes per week) limit alcohol consumption, max 1 drink for women and 2 for men per day consume a diet rich in whole grains, fruits, and vegetables, such as the DASH diet not smoking stress reduction and management, e.g. by meditation and yoga Effective lifestyle modification may lower blood pressure as much as an individual antihypertensive medication. Combinations of two or more lifestyle modifications can achieve even better results. There is considerable evidence that reducing dietary salt intake lowers blood pressure, but whether this translates into a reduction in mortality and cardiovascular disease remains uncertain. Estimated sodium intake ≥6 g/day and <3 g/day are both associated with high risk of death or major cardiovascular disease, but the association between high sodium intake and adverse outcomes is only observed in people with hypertension. Consequently, in the absence of results from randomized controlled trials, the wisdom of reducing levels of dietary sodium intake below 3 g/day has been questioned. ESC guidelines mention periodontitis is associated with poor cardiovascular health status. The value of routine screening for hypertension is debated. In 2004, the National High Blood Pressure Education Program recommended that children aged 3 years and older have blood pressure measurement at least once at every health care visit and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and American Academy of Pediatrics made a similar recommendation. However, the American Academy of Family Physicians supports the view of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force that the available evidence is insufficient to determine the balance of benefits and harms of screening for hypertension in children and adolescents who do not have symptoms. The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening adults 18 years or older for hypertension with office blood pressure measurement.