Peripheral artery disease (Signs and symptoms) : The signs and symptoms of peripheral artery disease are based on the affected body part. About 66% of patients affected by PAD either do not have symptoms or have atypical symptoms. The most common presenting symptom is intermittent claudication (IC), which typically refers to lower extremity skeletal muscle pain that occurs during exercise. IC presents when there is insufficient oxygen delivery to meet the metabolic requirements of the skeletal muscles. IC is a common manifestation of peripheral arterial disease (PAD). The pain is usually located in the calf muscles of the affected leg and is relieved by rest. This occurs because during exercise, the muscles require more oxygen. Normally, the arteries would be able to increase the amount of blood flow and therefore increase the amount of oxygen going to the exercised muscle. However, in PAD, the artery cannot respond appropriately to the increased muscular demand for oxygen. Therefore, the muscles are deprived of oxygen, leading to muscle pain that subsides with rest. Other symptoms may include: Pain, aches, and/or cramps in the buttocks, hip, or thigh Muscle atrophy (muscle loss) of the affected limb Hair loss of the affected limb Skin that is smooth, shiny, or cool to the touch in the affected area Decreased or absent pulse in the feet Cold and/or numbness in the toes Sores/ulcers on the affected limb that do not heal In individuals with severe PAD, complications may arise, including critical limb ischemia and gangrene. Critical limb ischemia occurs when the obstruction of blood flow in the artery is compromised to the point where the blood cannot maintain oxygenation of the tissue at rest. This can lead to pain at rest, a feeling of coldness, or numbness in the affected foot and toes. Other complications of severe PAD include lower limb tissue loss (amputation), arterial insufficiency ulcers, erectile dysfunction, and gangrene. People with diabetes are affected by gangrene of the feet at a rate that is 30 times higher than the unaffected population. Many of these severe complications, such as those leading to amputation, are irreversible.