Aortic aneurysm (Prevention) : The risk of aneurysm enlargement may be diminished with attention to the patient's blood pressure, smoking, and cholesterol levels. There have been proposals to introduce ultrasound scans as a screening tool for those most at risk: men over the age of 65. In a meta-analysis and systematic review of observational data, statins were associated with reduced rates of abdominal aortic aneurysm growth, rupture, and 30 day perioperative mortality. Randomized controlled trial research is unlikely to be conducted in this population due to ethical concerns when considering many patients who present with abdominal aortic aneurysms already have other proven indications of statin use, along with the lack of financial incentive for pharmaceutical companies in conducting expensive research on generic statins. Anacetrapib is a cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitor that raises high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and reduces low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Anacetrapib reduces progression of atherosclerosis, mainly by reducing non-HDL-cholesterol, improves lesion stability and adds to the beneficial effects of atorvastatin Elevating the amount of HDL cholesterol in the abdominal area of the aorta in mice both reduced the size of aneurysms that had already grown and prevented abdominal aortic aneurysms from forming at all. In short, raising HDL cholesterol is beneficial because it induces programmed cell death. The walls of a failing aorta are replaced and strengthened. New lesions should not form at all when using this drug. ACE inhibitors have also been associated with a reduced risk of aortic aneurysm rupture, in contrast with other classes of antihypertensive drugs which did not show a significant protective effect in a population based case control study conducted in Ontario, Canada. However, a prospective cohort study conducted in the UK revealed conflicting results with increased aortic aneurysm growth rates observed in those taking ACE inhibitors, compared with other classes of antihypertensive drugs. A small placebo controlled RCT conducted later found no significant effect of the ACE inhibitor perindopril or the calcium channel blocker amlodipine after 2 years, although the study had limited power to detect small differences between growth rates and higher powered research was warranted. Physical activity seems to be protective against aortic aneurysms. A meta-analysis reported a 30% lower risk of abdominal aortic aneurysm among individuals with high habitual physical activity compared to those with lower levels. A large study involving over 3 million people that underwent screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm found a lower incidence of the condition among those engaging in physical activity more than once a week.