Percutaneous coronary intervention (Procedure) : Balloon angioplasty is the inflation of a balloon (often part of an integrated medical device combining a balloon, guidewire, and stent) within the coronary artery to 'crush' the plaque causing the occlusion into the walls of the artery. Balloon angioplasty is still often performed as a part of PCI procedure, it is rarely the only activity performed. Procedures commonly associated with PCI are: Implantation of stents Arterial blockage debulking: removal or reshaping of plaque Rotational, orbital, and/or laser atherectomy (cutting plaque out) Brachytherapy (use of radioactive source to inhibit restenosis) Coronary intravascular lithotripsy (IVL), or using sonic waves to break up calcified plaques PCI consists of preparation of the skin area to be accessed (groin or arm), by shaving and swabbing the area with a bacteriostatic agent, usually a chlorhexidine based product. An introducer needle is inserted into the target artery. Once the access is gained, a "sheath introducer" is inserted to keep the artery open. This procedure is termed percutaneous access. As of 2023, catheter systems used in PCI procedures are often fully integrated medical devices. They are usually referred to as "over the wire" or OTW catheters. Typically having two lumen paths (a cavity within any tubular structure), the larger one for the navigating highly flexible guidewire and the smaller one for inflating and deflating the balloon or balloon/catheter assembly. The guidewire lumen extends the total length of the catheter. A balloon-stent is often part of the assembled device, other features may also be part of the medical device design depending on the nature of the procedure. The interventional cardiologist uses the entry point created during the percutaneous access step, to introduce the catheter system and guides it to the occluded area of the coronary artery being treated, using fluoroscopy and radiopaque dyes as an imaging tool. The device and its balloon/stent components can be inflated to open the stenotic diseased artery area. When a stent is used, the stent tube mesh is initially collapsed onto the balloon component of the catheter. In this collapsed state, it is small enough to be passed through relatively narrow peripheral arteries and then inflated by the underlying balloon and pressed firmly against the diseased coronary artery wall. It is expanded by pressure introduced by injecting physiological saline into the device through the lumen of the still attached catheter. Inflation time and pressure used are recorded during this placement procedure. After the balloon inflation/deflation or the deposition of the stent, the placement device/deflated balloon are removed leaving the stent in place. The interventional cardiologist decides how to treat the blockage in the best way during the PCI/stent placement, based on real-time data. The cardiologist uses imaging data provided by both intravascular ultrasound (IVUS), and fluoroscopic imaging (combined with a radiopaque dye) during the procedure. The information obtained from these two sources enables the cardiologist to track the path of the catheter-device as it moves through the arterial vessels. This information also helps determine both the location and physical characteristics of plaque(s) causing narrowing in the arteries. Data from these two techniques is used to correctly position the stent and to obtain detailed information relating to the coronary arterial anatomy. This anatomy varies greatly among individuals, having this information becomes crucial for effective treatment. The obtained data is recorded on video and is of value in cases when future treatment is needed.