Coronary artery bypass surgery (Results) : CABG is the best procedure to reduce mortality from severe CAD and improve quality of life. Operative mortality strongly relates to the patient's age. According to a study by Eagle et al., patients 50–59 years old have an operative mortality rate of 1.8%, while patients older than 80 have a rate of 8.3%. Other factors that increase mortality are being female, re-operation, dysfunction of the left ventricle, and left main disease. CABG usually relieves angina, but in some patients it reoccurs. Around 60% of patients will be angina-free 10 years after their operation. Myocardial infarction is rare five years after a CABG, but its risk increases with time. The risk of sudden death for CABG patients is low. Quality of life is also high for at least five years, then can slowly start to decline. However, the use of bilateral mammary artery in patients of younger age and those without specific comorbidities (diabetes, obesity, steroid use) can provide excellent long-term survival and quality of life. The beneficial effects of CABG are clear at the cardiac level. Left-ventricle function is improved and malfunctioning segments of the heart—dyskinetic (moving inefficiently) or even akinetic (not moving)—can show signs of improvement. Both systolic and diastolic functions are improved and keep improving for up to five years in some cases. Left-ventricle function and myocardial perfusion during exercise also improves after CABG. When the left ventricle is severely impaired before operation (ejection fraction below 30%), however, benefits are less impressive in terms of segmental wall movement but still significant because other parameters might improve as LV function improves; the pulmonary hypertension might be relieved and lengthen survival. Determining the total risk of the procedure is difficult because of the diversity of patients undergoing CABG; different subgroups have different risk, but younger patients see better results than older ones. A CABG using two, rather than one, internal mammary arteries (IMAs) may offer greater protection from CAD, but results are not yet conclusive.