Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (Living with an ICD) : People who have an implanted cardioverter-defibrillator can live full lives. Patients overall have either a sustained or improved quality of life after ICD implantation when compared to before ICD implantation. It may provide a strong degree of reassurance. As with a pacemaker, however, living with an ICD does impose some restrictions on the person's lifestyle. Almost all forms of physical activities can be performed by patients with an ICD with moderation. All forms of sports that do not pose a risk of damaging the ICD or because of the underlying cardiomyopathy can be undertaken by the patient. Special care should be taken not to put excessive strain on the shoulder, arm and torso area where the ICD is implanted. Doing so may damage the ICD or the leads going from the ICD generator to the patient's heart. Particularly to be avoided are exercises that cause the clavicle to be pulled down towards the ribs, such as lifting weights with the arm, on the ICD site, while standing. ICD patients in the United States are prohibited from professional or commercial driving per the Cardiovascular Advisory Panel Guidelines for the Medical Examination of Commercial Motor Vehicle Drivers. A driving abstinence for private drivers is recommended following ICD implantation, but the timeframe is variable depending on the country (between 3 and 6 months for secondary prevention and 1–4 weeks for primary prevention). Following an appropriate ICD-therapy, a driving ban is recommended for 3–6 months depending on the country. After inappropriate ICD-therapy delivered for non-ventricular arrhythmias or due to the device malfunction, driving restrictions usually apply until the cause of the inappropriate therapy has been eliminated. Equipment using magnets or generating magnetic fields, or any similar environment, must be avoided by patients with an ICD. As with other metallic objects, an ICD is normally a contraindication to the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, several ICD manufacturers have recently introduced MR-Conditional ICDs, which allow the use of MRI under specified safe operating conditions. Implantable cardioverter defibrillators have demonstrated clear life-saving benefits, while concerns about patient acceptance and psychological adjustment to the ICD have been the focus of much research. Researchers, including those from the field of cardiac psychology, have concluded that the quality of life (QoL) of ICD patients is at least equal to, or better than, that of those taking anti-arrhythmic medications. The largest study of examined 2,521 patients with stable heart failure in the SCD-HeFT trial. Results indicated that there were no differences between ICD-treated and medication-treated groups at 30 months in patient-reported QoL. Psychological adjustment following ICD implantation has also been well studied. In rare cases, the ICD can become infected and is usually bacterial in origin but other organisms such as certain fungi have occasionally been implicated. This is more likely to occur in people with diabetes, heart failure, kidney failure, or a suppressed immune system. Anxiety is a common psychological side effect, with approximately 13–38% of ICD patients reporting clinically significant anxiety. The primary etiological factors contributing to anxiety in ICD patients have not been determined, however. Depressive symptoms are also common, but the incidence of these problems has been shown to be similar to those observed in other cardiac patient groups, with approximately 24–41% of patients with ICDs experiencing depressive symptoms. Problems in psychosocial adjustment to ICDs, including the experience of anxiety, among spouses or other romantic partners are also prevalent. This phenomenon may be related, at least in part, to shared shock anxiety and avoidance of physical and sexual contact. Patients are generally required to follow up with their electrophysiologist cardiologist at regular intervals, mostly 3 to 6 months. At this time, many device manufactures have some form of home monitoring to allow for device data to be sent in electronically to the physician. Recent advances include app integration for home interrogation and remote care has been correlated with some mortality benefit.