Infective endocarditis (Prevention) : Not all people with heart disease require antibiotics to prevent infective endocarditis. Heart diseases have been classified into high, medium, and low risk of developing IE. Those falling into the high-risk category require IE prophylaxis before endoscopies and urinary tract procedures. Diseases listed under high risk include: Prior endocarditis Unrepaired cyanotic congenital heart diseases Completely repaired congenital heart disease in their first 6 months Prosthetic heart valves or valves repaired with any prosthetic material Incompletely repaired congenital heart diseases Cardiac transplant valvulopathy The following are the antibiotic regimens recommended by the American Heart Association for antibiotic prophylaxis: Oral amoxicillin one hour before the procedure Intravenous or intramuscular ampicillin one hour before the procedure In patients allergic to penicillins Azithromycin or clarithromycin orally, one hour before the procedure Cephalexin orally one hour before the procedure Clindamycin orally one hour before the procedure In the UK, NICE clinical guidelines no longer advise prophylaxis because there is no clinical evidence that it reduces the incidence of IE, and there are negative effects (e.g., allergy and increased bacterial resistance) of taking antibiotics that may outweigh the benefits. Antibiotics were historically commonly recommended to prevent IE in those with heart problems undergoing dental procedures (known as dental antibiotic prophylaxis). There is, however, insufficient evidence to support whether antibiotics are effective or ineffective at preventing IE when given prior to a dental procedure in people at high risk. They are less commonly recommended for this procedure. In some countries, e.g., the US, high-risk patients may be given prophylactic antibiotics such as penicillin or clindamycin for penicillin-allergic people before dental procedures. Prophylactics should be bactericidal rather than bacteriostatic. Such measures are not taken in certain countries e.g. Scotland due to the fear of antibiotic resistance. Because bacteria are the most common cause of infective endocarditis, antibiotics such as penicillin and amoxicillin (for beta lactamase-producing bacteria) are used in prophylaxis.