Tetralogy of Fallot (History) : Tetralogy of Fallot was initially described in 1671 by the Danish researcher Niels Steensen. Also referenced as Nicolaus Steno in Latin, Steensen was a pioneer in anatomy and geology, his work making significant specific contribution to the fields of cardiac anatomy and pathology. A further description was published in 1888 by the French physician Étienne-Louis Arthur Fallot, after whom it was ultimately named. In 1924, Maude Elizabeth Seymour Abbott, a pediatric cardiologist from Montreal, Canada, named it tetralogy of Fallot. The short paper "Dissection of a Monstrous Foetus in Paris" in 1671 first described the conditions that would later together be known as TOF. In particular, it highlighted the unusual formation of arteries, the stenosing of the pulmonary artery, the absence of the ductus arteriosus, an overriding aorta, and fetal cardiac circulation where blood was redirected to the aorta from the pulmonary artery. Over a hundred years later in 1777, Dutch physician Eduard Sandifort reported what he referred to as "the blue boy" patient. This patient, who was 16 months old, was initially thought to have asthma, though an autopsy postmortem revealed a cardiac malformation with no ductus arteriosus or ligamentum arteriosum, indicating that the child may have died from TOF. Another 13-year-old patient was reported by Scottish physician William Hunter in 1782. Hunter described the patient, along with three others, as suffering from cyanosis after a posthumous examination in 1774. Other cases, such as those presented by Pulteney (1785), Abernethy (1793), Bell (1797), Dorsey (1812), and Farre (1814) also contributed to modern understandings of TOF. The first reported case of TOF was in America at the University of Pennsylvania in 1816, with more cases being reported by Peacock (1858 and 1869), Widman (1881), and finally Fallot (1888), after whom the condition is named. Fallot was the first to elegantly describe the four key features that differentiate it from other cyanotic cardiac conditions, and was prominent in the disqualification of a patent foramen ovale as a fifth feature. Fallot initially referred to it as "La maladie bleue", which is French for "the blue disease" or "cyanose cardiaque", translating to "cardiac cyanosis". The first surgical palliation was carried out in 1944 at Johns Hopkins. The procedure was conducted by surgeon Alfred Blalock and cardiologist Helen B. Taussig, with Vivien Thomas also providing substantial contributions and listed as an assistant. This first surgery was depicted in the film Something the Lord Made. It was actually Helen Taussig who convinced Alfred Blalock that the shunt was going to work. 15-month-old Eileen Saxon was the first person to receive a Blalock–Thomas–Taussig shunt. Furthermore, the Blalock-Thomas-Taussig procedure, initially the only surgical treatment available for tetralogy of Fallot, was palliative but not curative. The first total repair of tetralogy of Fallot was done by a team led by C. Walton Lillehei at the University of Minnesota in 1954 on an 11-year-old boy. Total repair on infants has had success from 1981, with research indicating that it has a comparatively low mortality rate. Today the adult TOF population continues to grow and is one of the most common congenital heart defects seen in adult outpatient clinics.