Deep vein thrombosis (Management) : Treatment for DVT is warranted when the clots are either proximal, distal, and symptomatic, or upper extremity and symptomatic. Providing anticoagulation, or blood-thinning medicine, is the typical treatment after patients are checked to make sure they are not subject to bleeding. However, treatment varies depending upon the location of DVT. For example, in cases of isolated distal DVT, ultrasound surveillance (a second ultrasound after 2 weeks to check for proximal clots), might be used instead of anticoagulation. Although, those with isolated distal DVT at a high risk of VTE recurrence are typically anticoagulated as if they had proximal DVT. Those at low risk of recurrence might receive a four- to six-week course of anticoagulation, lower doses, or no anticoagulation at all. In contrast, those with proximal DVT should receive at least 3 months of anticoagulation. Some anticoagulants can be taken by mouth, and these oral medicines include warfarin (a vitamin K antagonist), rivaroxaban (a factor Xa inhibitor), apixaban (a factor Xa inhibitor), dabigatran (a direct thrombin inhibitor), and edoxaban (a factor Xa inhibitor). Other anticoagulants cannot be taken by mouth. These parenteral (non-oral) medicines include low-molecular-weight heparin, fondaparinux, and unfractionated heparin. Some oral medicines are sufficient when taken alone, while others require an additional parenteral blood thinner. Rivaroxaban and apixaban are the typical first-line medicines, and they are sufficient when taken orally. Rivaroxaban is taken once daily, and apixaban is taken twice daily. Warfarin, dabigatran, and edoxaban require the use of a parenteral anticoagulant to initiate oral anticoagulant therapy. When warfarin is initiated for VTE treatment, a 5-day minimum of a parenteral anticoagulant together with warfarin is given, which is followed by warfarin-only therapy. Warfarin is taken to maintain an international normalized ratio (INR) of 2.0–3.0, with 2.5 as the target. The benefit of taking warfarin declines as the duration of treatment extends, and the risk of bleeding increases with age. Periodic INR monitoring is not necessary when first-line direct oral anticoagulants are used. Overall, anticoagulation therapy is complex, and many circumstances can affect how these therapies are managed. The duration of anticoagulation therapy (whether it will last 4 to 6 weeks, 6 to 12 weeks, 3 to 6 months, or indefinitely) is a key factor in clinical decision making. When proximal DVT is provoked by surgery or trauma a 3-month course of anticoagulation is standard. When a first VTE is proximal DVT that is either unprovoked or associated with transient non-surgical risk factor, low-dose anticoagulation beyond 3 to 6 months might be used. In those with an annual risk of VTE in excess of 9%, as after an unprovoked episode, extended anticoagulation is a possibility. Those who finish warfarin treatment after idiopathic VTE with an elevated D-dimer level show an increased risk of recurrent VTE (about 9% vs about 4% for normal results), and this result might be used in clinical decision making. Thrombophilia test results rarely play a role in the length of treatment. Treatment for acute leg DVT is suggested to continue at home for uncomplicated DVT instead of hospitalization. Factors that favor hospitalization include severe symptoms or additional medical issues. Early walking is suggested over bedrest. Graduated compression stockings—which apply higher pressure at the ankles and a lower pressure around the knees can be trialed for symptomatic management of acute DVT symptoms, but they are not recommended for reducing the risk of post-thrombotic syndrome, as the potential benefit of using them for this goal "may be uncertain". Nor are compression stockings likely to reduce VTE recurrence. They are, however, recommended in those with isolated distal DVT. If someone decides to stop anticoagulation after an unprovoked VTE instead of being on lifelong anticoagulation, aspirin can be used to reduce the risk of recurrence. It is only about 33% as effective as anticoagulation in preventing recurrent VTE. Statins have also been investigated for their potential to reduce recurrent VTE rates, with some studies suggesting effectiveness.