Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (Pathophysiology) : The cause of takotsubo cardiomyopathy is not fully understood, but several mechanisms have been proposed. It is well documented that elevated catecholamine levels have been implicated in the vast majority of TTS cases. Theories suggest a link between brain activation of stress-related biochemicals (including neuropeptides) and the effects these chemicals have on areas of the heart, especially neuropeptide Y. Specifically, adrenal stimulation by the sympathetic nervous system has been seen in cases ranging from physical events such as ischemic stroke, to emotional events such as depression or loss of a loved-one. How these increased levels of catecholamines act in the body to produce the changes seen with TTS is not clearly understood. Research supports the widely-held theory that microvascular dysfunction and coronary vasospasm caused by a rapid influx of catecholamines to cardiac myocytes, results in apical stunning and transient cardiomyopathy. Microvascular dysfunction/Transient vasospasm: Some of the original researchers of takotsubo suggested that multiple simultaneous spasms of coronary arteries could cause enough loss of blood flow to cause transient stunning of the myocardium. Other researchers have shown that vasospasm is much less common than earlier thought. It has been observed that vasospasms, even in multiple arteries, do not correlate with the areas of myocardium that are not contracting. However, coronary artery vasospasm is still believed to contribute to the TTS disease process. The theory of vasospasm is not easily distinguished from microvascular dysfunction, and microvascular dysfunction could explain vasospasticity. Impaired microvascular function is seen in a vast majority, if not all, of patients with TTS and is one of the most widely held theories. Most of the dysfunction occurs from abnormalities within the endothelial linings of blood vessels supplying the heart. In TTS, these highly sensitive interior linings of the vessels have reduced functionality which create dysregulation of vascular tone and predispose the individual to vasoconstriction. When the increased vasoconstriction from catecholamines occurs, the result is acute cardiac ischemia. Catecholamine-induced myocyte injury: It has been suggested that the response to catecholamines (such as epinephrine and norepinephrine, released in response to stress) leads to heart muscle dysfunction that contributes to takotsubo cardiomyopathy. The effects of this toxicity can be greater in those with a predisposition to anxiety or panic disorders. Delivery of catecholamines (epinephrine, norepinephrine) via circulating blood and through direct delivery from cardiac nerves is increased by the stimulation of stress control centers of the brain. During an emotionally or physically stressful event, brain centers initiate the sympathetic nervous pathways and increase myocardial activity. Excessive catecholamine stimulation has a toxic effect on cardiac muscle cells which creates necrosis of the contractile units of cells similarly seen during acute myocardial infarction. The increased workload of cardiac muscle created by the stimulation of catecholamines, increases the need for more blood and oxygen to these muscles to sustain function. When these demands are unable to be met, the heart is starved of blood and oxygen and begins to die. Included in the cytotoxic sequela of catecholamine toxicity is the molecular transformation of the cardiac myocyte to produce apical stunning. Mid-ventricular and left ventricular outflow obstruction: It has been suggested that a mid-ventricular wall thickening with outflow obstruction is important in the pathophysiology. A quarter of unselected patients with TTS who presented to an emergency department were found to have obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) on blinded echocardiographic analysis. These patients had septal thickening, systolic anterior motion (SAM) of the mitral valve, left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction with mean peak outflow gradients of 71 ±40mmHg. Compared with normal controls, the patients with SAM had longer anterior mitral leaflets, thicker septum (16 ±4 mm), and anterior displacement of the mitral valve in LV cavity. Moreover, in the patients with SAM, distinctive characteristics of HCM, including the mitral valve abnormalities persisted after normalization of LV function. It had previously been hypothesized that LVOT obstruction was due to a geometric shape-change of the LV caused by ballooning. In contrast, this data and others indicate that SAM and the outflow obstruction, rather are the cause of the LV ballooning in these patients. Patients with obstructive HCM may develop acute LV ballooning that resembles TTS when latent obstruction becomes severe and unrelenting. This observation has supplemented previous reports that acute LV ballooning punctuated the course of 1% of obstructive HCM patients, occurring even in recent clinical trials of pharmacologic agents. The cause is afterload mismatch and supply-demand ischemia that frequently cause striking cardiographic abnormalities when LVOT gradients are more than 60 mmHg. Contributing to ischemia are intramural coronary narrowings in HCM due to intimal and medial hyperplasia of the arterioles. Acute LV ballooning due to SAM and LVOT obstruction can cause cardiogenic shock. This complication may be severe enough to require mechanical LV support. If cardiogenic shock is refractory, with acidosis and oliguria, it may require surgical relief of LVOT obstruction. Strikingly, after outflow obstruction is relieved, LV function and hemodynamics return to normal within hours. This is compelling evidence that the HCM and LVOT obstruction was the cause of the acute LV ballooning. There may be different phenocopies of TTS. Individual cases, though appearing similar, may have different pathophysiology. The most common cause is thought to be a direct adverse effect on the cardiomyocytes and microvasculature that may be conceptualized as neurohumoral TTS. Another, occurring in a minority of TTS patients, is caused by acute LVOT obstruction with distinctive features of HCM. Both may be precipitated by acute emotional stress. Apical stunning: This stunning is largely seen as a protective effect produced by the flood of excess catecholamines into the cardiac muscle cell. Overstimulation of catecholamine receptors create physiological changes in the receptor which has an inverse effect on cardiac cellular function. Termed 'cellular-trafficking', this property of the cardiac muscle cell is actually a molecular transformation of the cell to produce a down-regulation of catecolaminergic sensitivity. This means that in the presence of excess epinephrine, a normal cardiac contraction is inhibited in an effort to reduce energy demands, prevent hyperactivity and spare the integrity of the cell. Further bolstering this idea is the concentration of these kinds of receptors in the heart. Higher concentrations of the receptor effected to produce cardiac stunning are found closer to the apex of the ventricle. This is what creates the classic ballooning effect of the ventricle. It is likely that there are multiple factors at play that could include some amount of vasospasm and failure of the microvasculature. These factors can overlap and create the complex sequela leading to ischemia and left ventricle contraction abnormality. For instance, estrogen, which confers protection to women by improving blood flow to heart muscle, is one biochemical pathway implicated in the TTS disease process. Once this protective mechanism is reduced through the decreased production of estrogen after menopause, there is thought to be an increase in endothelial dysfunction predisposing an individual to vasoconstriction and cardiac ischemia. An inciting stressful event elicits the release of catecholamines into the blood stream to create increased heart muscle activity and metabolism. This leads to further cardiac microvascular endothelial dysfunction through oxidative stress, alteration of ion-mediated channels, and electrolyte disturbances which ultimately alter myocardial cell membrane permeability and dysfunction. Coupled with direct heart muscle toxicity, this crescendo of factors are implicated in the ballooning and heart failure characteristically seen in TTS. A 2019 case involved a 60-year-old woman presenting with TTS due to over-consumption of wasabi, mistaking it for avocado.